# Local Pihole DNS Server
This is a DNS server meant to block ad traffic at the host-level.  
With this, you can finally say goodbye do ads!

## Requirements
- linux (any distro that supports docker)
- Docker
- Docker Compose
- Internet Connection (for downloading the pihole image and routing )

## Download
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Isaac-Hawks/pihole && 
cd pihole
```
## Setup/Deployment
For this to work, you need docker + docker-compose on the device that will be hosting your Pihole server

Install dependencies (if needed):
```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install docker.io docker-compose -y

```
> Important! make sure to change the password in the .env file before running this command.

After you have docker installed, you have to start the container in the pihole directory:
`sudo docker-compose up -d`
Note: If this is your first time doing this, docker will need to download the pihole image.

## Container Management
* If you ever want to edit the docker-compose.yml file, run `docker-compose down` from inside the pihole directory to remove the container and network,
  then run `docker-compose up -d` to rebuild the container and network
* To temporarily stop the docker container so it doesn't hog all your resources, run `docker stop pihole`
  * To start the container again, run `docker start pihole`



## Accessing your server
If you are accessing the pihole webpager from your host machine, then you will need to navigate to http://127.0.0.1:8080.  
Otherwise, if you are accessing it from a different device, go to http://<your-ip-address>:8080
* To find your ip address, run `hostname -I | awk '{print $1}'` on the machine hosting your pihole DNS server

# Folder Structure
```
/pihole
  ├── /data
  │   └── /dnsmasq
  │       └── .gitkeep
  ├── /pihole
  │   └── .gitkeep
  ├── .env
  ├── docker-compose.yml
  └── README.md
```

## Making it 'work'
If you want pihole to work, you will need to reroute any ad traffic to your localhost address so pihole can block it at the DNS level <br>

After starting the pihole container and navigating to the GUI. run: `sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf` and add these lines:
```
nameserver 127.0.0.1
options timeout:1 attempts:2
```
When you're finished, it should look something like this:
```bash
# Generated by NetworkManager
search lan
nameserver 127.0.0.1
options timeout:1 attempts:2

nameserver 192.168.1.1
nameserver 2603:6011:8900:e26c::1
```
## Important!
After you restart your computer, you will need to do the steps above again, as it reverts back to normal after a restart. 
After the first login, go to Tools > Update Gravity, and click Update. This pulls the latest ad-block lists.

